Unit 1
Lesson 1: Integers, Equations, and Inequalities
Tutorial 1.1: Expressions and Variables
A variable is a letter to represent one or more numbers.
A numerical expression is a sequence of numbers and operations.
A variable expression is a sequence of numbers, variables and operations. 
To evaluate a variable expression, replace a number for each variable, thus created a numerical expression. Now solve for a solution of the expression.
A verbal model translates the mathematical expressions to words.
Operations
	Common Words/Phrases
	Addition
	plus, the sum of
	Subtraction
	minus, the difference of
	Multiplication
	times, multiplied by
	Division
	divided by
	Tutorial 1.2: Powers and Exponents
A power is repeated multiplication of the same number. It has two parts: the base and the exponent. 
The base is the number to be multiplied.
The exponent is the number of times the base number is repeated. 
Tutorial 1.3: Order of Operations
Order of operations is the order in which an expression is evaluated (PEMDAS). 
1. Evaluate inner grouping symbols → () [] {}
2. Evaluate powers → 
3. Evaluate multiplication and division from left to right
4. Evaluate addition and subtraction from left to right
Tutorial 1.4: Comparing and Ordering Integers
Integers are a set of numbers without a decimal point.
Positive integers are a subset of integers that are greater than 0.
Negative integers are a subset of integers that are less than 0.
The absolute value of a number is the distance from 0. This number would always be a positive integer or 0. 
Opposites numbers occur when two numbers have the same absolute value but different signs (+ -).
Tutorial 1.5: Adding Integers & Subtracting Integers
Adding integers is combining the absolute value of any two numbers to the left if the second number has a negative sign or to the right if the second number has a positive sign.
Subtracting integers is the same as adding integers of different sign.
Subtraction is a way to evaluate the change of a quantity.


Observation
	Process
	Example
	Same Sign
	Combine the absolute values of the number (unit)  and use the same sign
	

	Different Sign
	Remove the absolute value of the unit of the lesser value from the greater value.
	

	Opposites
(additive inverse)
	The sum of the numbers is 0.
	

	  Tutorial 1.6: Multiplying and Dividing Integers


Observation
	Process
	Example
	Same Sign
	The product/quotient of any two integers with the same sign is positive.
	

	Different Sign
	The product/quotient of any two integers with the same sign is negative.
	

	0
	The product of 0 and any integer is 0.
	

	

Lesson 2: Solving Equations
Tutorial 2.1: Properties and Operations
Commutative Property: The order of the numbers does not matter.


Commutative Property
	Example
	Commutative Property of Addition
	

	Commutative Property of Multiplication
	

	

Associative Property: The grouping of the numbers does not matter.


Commutative Property
	Example
	Associative Property of Addition
	

	Associative Property of Multiplication
	

	



Tutorial 2.2: The Distributive Property
Equivalent numerical expressions are expressions that have the same value.
Equivalent variable expressions are expressions that have the same value for all values of the variable.


Distributive Property 
	



	

Tutorial 2.3: Simplifying Variable Expressions
Terms are the components of an expression that are added together. 
The coefficient is the number directly in front of a variable. 
A constant term does not have a variable attached to it.
Like terms have identical variable parts
Equation:
	
	Terms:
	
	Coefficients:
	
	Constant Terms:
	
	Like Terms:
	

	. 
Tutorial 2.4: Variables and Equations & Tutorial 2.5: Solving Equations Using Addition or Subtraction & Tutorial 2.6: Solving Equations Using Multiplication or Division 
An equation uses an equal sign to state two expressions are equal.
A solution of an equation is the number that the variable represents to make the equation true.
Solving the equation is to find the solution of a given equation.
Inverse operations are any two operations that undo each other.
   * Addition and subtraction are inverses of each other
   * Multiplication and division are inverses of each other
Equivalent equations are equations with the same solution.


Property
	Practice
	Subtraction Property of Equality
	


	Addition Property of Equality
	


	Division Property of Equality
	


	Multiplication Property of Equality
	


	Lesson 3: Multi-Step Equations and Inequalities
Tutorial 3.1: Solving Two-Step Equations
Using inverse operations to solve for a variable.


Example
	




	

Tutorial 3.2: Solving Equations Having Like Terms and Parentheses
Combine like terms and use the Distributive Property to simplify the equation before solving it. 


Example
	





	

Tutorial 3.3: Solving Equations with Variables on Both Sides
The goal is to move terms with variables on one side to solve the equation. 


Example
	



	

Tutorial 3.4: Solving Inequalities Using Addition or Subtraction                 
An inequality uses inequality symbol instead of an equal sign.
The solution of an inequality is a set of all numbers that make the statement true.


Sign
	Word
	
	Less than
	
	Less than or equal to
	
	Greater than
	
	Greater than or equal to
	Solve the inequality similar to solving an equation.


Addition and Subtraction Properties of Inequality
	

	Adding or subtracting the same number on each side of an inequality produces an equivalent inequality.


	

or

	Tutorial 3.5: Solving Inequalities Using Multiplication or Division


Addition and Subtraction Properties of Inequality
	

	Adding or subtracting the same number on each side of an inequality produces an equivalent inequality.


	

or

	

Addition and Subtraction Properties of Inequality
	

	Adding or subtracting the same number on each side of an inequality produces an equivalent inequality.


	

or